README.md, before:

# NWI Data Tool

## Setup

### MacOS

1. Install [`direnv`](https://direnv.net/), Node.js, GDAL, gettext (for
`envsubst`), and PostgreSQL with PostGIS:

```bash
brew bundle
```

2. Install Node.js dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Enable `direnv` (to set environment variables and to update `PATH`):

```bash
direnv allow
```

4. Copy `sample.env` to `.env` (and update it if necessary):

```bash
cp sample.env .env
```

## Data Preparation

 1. Obtain and load AW `reaches` table
 2. Load [Watershed Boundary Dataset
    (WBD)](https://www.usgs.gov/core-science-systems/ngp/national-hydrography/watershed-boundary-dataset)
    4-digit hydrologic units
 3. Pick a 4-digit hydrologic unit from [the WBD Subregions Map](https://www.usgs.gov/media/images/watershed-boundary-dataset-subregions-map), e.g. `1709` (the Willamette).
 4. Create an HU4 `reaches` table by intersecting WBD with `reaches` to filter
    for access points in that HU4
 5. Download and import `nhdflowline` `nhdarea`, `nhdwaterbody`, and
    `nhdplusflowlinevaa` for the selected 4-digit hydrologic unit.
 6. Import `nhdfcode` (if not already imported).
 7. Create snapped reach put-ins (`snapped_putins`) with `nhdplusid`, `fdate`,
    number of candidate flowlines, point on closest flowline, point on
    associated polygon, original point, and link from original to snapped
    location.
 8. Create snapped reach take-outs (`snapped_takeouts`) with `nhdplusid`,
    `fdate`, number of candidate flowlines, point on closest flowline, point
    on associated polygon, original point, and link from original to snapped
    location.
 9. Adjust put-in locations for reaches immediately downstream from other
    reaches so that they match the upstream reach's take-out location.
    (Take-outs are snapped to downstream NHD segments using put-in
    information.)
10. Stitch linework together between put-ins and take-outs to form
    `reach_segments`.

Steps 2-8 can be executed for a given HU4 (e.g. `1709`) using:

```bash
make -j $(nproc) wbd/1709
```

This will download upwards of 3GB of data from USGS.

Step 9 can be repeated as necessary:

```bash
make db/correct_putins
```

Step 10:

```bash
make db/reach_segments.1712
```

### TODO

* Report generation, e.g. # of points that didn't snap per watershed, distance
  breakdowns
* Identify reaches where the put-in / take-out flowline point is **NOT** on the
  generated reach segment (this will identify incomplete reach segments,
  potentially due to swapped put-in / take-out locations)
* Identify reaches where the put-in is downstream of the take-out (e.g. 10559
  [0107]); these can be handled by flipped put-in and take-out `nhdplusid`s

Commit message:

Handle (and mark) questionable reaches

README.md, after:

# NWI Data Tool

## Setup

### MacOS

1. Install [`direnv`](https://direnv.net/), Node.js, GDAL, gettext (for
`envsubst`), and PostgreSQL with PostGIS:

```bash
brew bundle
```

2. Install Node.js dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Enable `direnv` (to set environment variables and to update `PATH`):

```bash
direnv allow
```

4. Copy `sample.env` to `.env` (and update it if necessary):

```bash
cp sample.env .env
```

## Data Preparation

 1. Obtain and load AW `reaches` table
 2. Load [Watershed Boundary Dataset
    (WBD)](https://www.usgs.gov/core-science-systems/ngp/national-hydrography/watershed-boundary-dataset)
    4-digit hydrologic units
 3. Pick a 4-digit hydrologic unit from [the WBD Subregions Map](https://www.usgs.gov/media/images/watershed-boundary-dataset-subregions-map), e.g. `1709` (the Willamette).
 4. Create an HU4 `reaches` table by intersecting WBD with `reaches` to filter
    for access points in that HU4
 5. Download and import `nhdflowline` `nhdarea`, `nhdwaterbody`, and
    `nhdplusflowlinevaa` for the selected 4-digit hydrologic unit.
 6. Import `nhdfcode` (if not already imported).
 7. Create snapped reach put-ins (`snapped_putins`) with `nhdplusid`, `fdate`,
    number of candidate flowlines, point on closest flowline, point on
    associated polygon, original point, and link from original to snapped
    location.
 8. Create snapped reach take-outs (`snapped_takeouts`) with `nhdplusid`,
    `fdate`, number of candidate flowlines, point on closest flowline, point
    on associated polygon, original point, and link from original to snapped
    location.
 9. Adjust put-in locations for reaches immediately downstream from other
    reaches so that they match the upstream reach's take-out location.
    (Take-outs are snapped to downstream NHD segments using put-in
    information.)
10. Stitch linework together between put-ins and take-outs to form
    `reach_segments`.

Steps 2-8 can be executed for a given HU4 (e.g. `1709`) using:

```bash
make -j $(nproc) wbd/1709
```

This will download upwards of 3GB of data from USGS.

Step 9 can be repeated as necessary:

```bash
make db/correct_putins
```

Step 10:

```bash
make db/reach_segments.1712
```

### Questionable Reach Segments

Questionable reach segments (i.e. where the segment is something other than a
LineString, where snapped flowline points are **not** on the generated
segment, or where snapped put-ins are downstream of take-outs) are marked
using the `questionable` column on `reach_segments`.

### TODO

* Report generation, e.g. # of points that didn't snap per watershed, distance
  breakdowns
